# **Project_1_Finance**
#**Housing Market Analysis**
 #Hypothesis: The increase of Interest Rates will cause home buying by Millennials to decrease
  #Definitions in our Scope:
   #Millennial - a person aged 25-34
   #FFR - Federal Funds Rate
   #FMI - Fixed Mortgage Interest Rate
#For our project, we wanted to look at how the housing market has changed in the over the past 5 years.  We are all iaround the age that home buying is on our minds, so we wanted to look at trends concerning interest rates.  
#To do this, we first Googled questions we had (like how much the interest rate has changed) and tried to find data from the articles we found.  We also talked with people in our lives working in our chosen field of study about our proposal and took some suggestions from them on where to look or how to modify our scope (Shout out Kyle for helping us tighten up our definition of Millennial).  We also looked at the delveloper section on the Census Bureau and Federal Housing Administration, but after finding FRED (Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis) and the data that site offered, we pulled our data sets from there
#After finding our data, we broke it up into areas of interest, and started cleaning.  Most of our data sets had the information sorted how we needed, but we did have to change the Data Types for columns within our Data Frames or take Samples of the data.
# **Question 1: How has the Federal Interest Rate Changed?**
#The data I pulled for this question is from FRED, from the past 5 years.  We wanted to include the past 5 years because it looks at pre-COVID, during COVID, and "post"-COVID.  From this data, I can tell that post-COVID rates are just *slightly* above where they were pre-COVID.  I can also see that the lowest rate that we had was in the beginning of 2020, which makes sense because that's when COVID really hit.  I also noticed that the rates stayed below 0.5% through the rest of 2020, all of 2021, and at the beginning of 2022.  Personally, not really having a need to pay attention to the FED rate (whether I was living with my parents, the entire world was shut down, or I was already in a lease, I did not know that the FED rate stayed below 0.5% for so long, and I also had no idea that we just now surpassed the pre-COVID rates
# **Question 2: How has the 30-Year FMI Rate Changed?**
#The data I pulled for this question is from FRED, from the past 5 years.  From this data, I was able to see how the FMI rate has quickly surpassed that of the pre-COVID rate.  I found the maximum value for pre-COVID and "post"-COVID.  Looking at the data further, it took over a year for the FMI rate to reach it's high pre-COVID, and it has now taken less than a year for it to go higher than that "post"-COVID.  Based on this data and my own thinking, I would guess that the rate at which Millennials are buying houses has slowed if not gone down. 
#**Question 3: How has the 15-Year FMI Rate Changed?**
#I collected data from FRED regarding the 15 Yr. FMI Rate over the past five years to compare to the 30 Yr. FMI Rate. These rates have both increased in similar fashion over the past 5 years. From increasing in 2019, plummeting in 2020 and then increasing as we get into 2023 and the impending recession. I took data from FRED and grouped together the monthly FMI rate averages into years and took the average of each year's FMI in order to get a more precise picture of the change over the last five years. 
#**Question 4: What does the cost of Rent for Millennials look like over the past 5 years?**
#Cost of rent has gradually increased over the past five years, unlike interest rates that tend to move more with the change in the economy, the cost of rent has been stagnantly increasing. I grouped together cost of rent in the United States by year and then took the averages to show the gradual increase. It makes sense as we were in the pandemic for rent prices to be very high since cost of goods had likely increased. 
#**Question 5: What do Expenses for Millennials look like over the past 5 years?**
#Expenses have increased gradually over the past five years then spking as we go into 2021. Expenses will be any purchase related to the cost of living. With rent increasing, expenses naturally increase, as rent is a part of expenses, but all other expenses increased as well. This could be a sign as to why more people wanted to buy homes as opposed to renting, if your rent is already high and your expenses, you may as well invest in somehting that could be yours. 
#**Question 6: How has the Value of Millennial Houses Change?**
#The data for this question was pulled from FRED from the past 5 years.  Based on the data found, home values have gone up quite a bit.   Even though it is now costing more to spend more - meaning that because FED and FMI rates have both gone up, it is costing more to borrow, which means that mortgages and mortgage payments are going to go up.  The max home value has also gone up around $3,000 in 3 years
#**Conclusion:**
#Tying in Rilee's data on Rent prices, as those are rising as well, it makes sense that one would want to put that money towards a home that they might out-right own one day.  With home values on the rise it also makes sense that the amount of expenses would go up, higher taxes, mortgages are going up, and the costs of goods and services needed to maintain an entire home are going to be greater than what it would cost to rent a one bedroom apartment.
